#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass style/nsf
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package none
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding default
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 1
\output_sync_macro "\synctex=-1"
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 0
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 0
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 0
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\series bold
Budget & Budget Justificaton
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Each proposal must contain a budget for each year of support requested.
 
\series bold
The budget justification must be no more than thre pages per proposal
\series default
.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
The amounts for each budget line item requested must be documented and justified
 in the budget justification as specified below.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
For proposals that contain a subaward(s), 
\series bold
each subaward must include a separate budget justification of no more than
 three pages
\series default
.
 See Chapter II.C.2.g.(vi)(e) for further instructions on proposals that contain
 subawards.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
The proposal may request funds under any of the categories listed so long
 as the item and amount are considered necessary, reasonable, allocable,
 and allowable under 2 CFR § 200, Subpart E, NSF policy, and/or the program
 solicitation.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout ProposalSection
G
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Budget Justification
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Salaries and Wages
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\series bold
Salaries and Wages (Lines A and B on the Proposal Budget)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
#### Senior Personnel Salaries & Wages Policy As a general policy, NSF limits
 the salary compensation requested in the proposal budget for senior personnel
 to no more than two months of their regular salary in any one year.
 This limit includes salary compensation received from all NSF-funded grants.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
#### Administrative and Clerical Salaries & Wages Policy In accordance with
 2 CFR § 200.413, the salaries of administrative and clerical staff should
 normally be treated as indirect costs (F&A).
 Direct charging of these costs may be appropriate only if all the conditions
 identified below are met: (i) Administrative or clerical services are integral
 to a project or activity; (ii) Individuals involved can be specifically
 identified with the project or activity; (iii) Such costs are explicitly
 included in the approved budget or have the prior written approval of the
 cognizant NSF Grants Officer; and (iv) The costs are not also recovered
 as indirect costs.
 Conditions (i) (ii) and (iv) above are particularly relevant for consideration
 at the budget preparation stage.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
#### Procedures The names of the PI(s), faculty, and other senior personnel
 and the estimated number of full-time-equivalent person-months for which
 NSF funding is requested, and the total amount of salaries requested per
 year, must be listed.
 For consistency with the NSF cost sharing policy, if person months will
 be requested for senior personnel, a corresponding salary amount must be
 entered on the budget.
 If no person months and no salary are being requested for senior personnel,
 they should be removed from Section A of the budget.
 Their name(s) will remain on the Cover Sheet and the individual(s) role
 on the project should be described in the Facilities, Equipment and Other
 Resources section of the proposal.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
For postdoctoral associates and other professionals, the total number of
 persons for each position must be listed, with the number of full-time-equivale
nt person-months and total amount of salaries requested per year.
 For graduate and undergraduate students, secretarial, clerical, technical,
 etc., whose time will be charged directly to the project, only the total
 number of persons and total amount of salaries requested per year in each
 category is required.
 Compensation classified as salary payments must be requested in the salaries
 and wages category.
 Salaries requested must be consistent with the organization’s regular practices.
 The budget justification should detail the rates of pay by individual for
 senior personnel, postdoctoral associates, and other professionals.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
#### Confidential Budgetary Information p.24
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
A.
 Senior Personnel
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent

\series bold
A1.

\series default
 Includes PI at 10% CY.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
B.
 Other Personnel
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent

\series bold
B3.

\series default
 Includes stipend for one graduate student for each calendar year of the
 project.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
C.
 Fringe Benefits
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\series bold
Fringe Benefits (Line C on the Proposal Budget)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
If the proposer’s usual accounting practices provide that its contributions
 to employee benefits (leave, employee insurance, social security, retirement,
 other payroll-related taxes, etc.) be treated as direct costs, NSF grant
 funds may be requested to fund fringe benefits as a direct cost.
 These are typically determined by application of a calculated fringe benefit
 rate for a particular class of employee (full time or part-time) applied
 to the salaries and wages requested.
 They also may be paid based on actual costs for individual employees, if
 that institutional policy has been approved by the cognizant Federal agency.
 See 2 CFR § 200.431 for the definition and allowability of inclusion of
 fringe benefits on a proposal budget.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Fringe benefits are calculated at a rate of X% for faculty, Y% for graduate
 students.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
D.
 Equipment
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\series bold
Equipment (Line D on the Proposal Budget) 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Equipment is defined as tangible personal property (including information
 technology systems) having a useful life of more than one year and a per-unit
 acquisition cost which equals or exceeds the lesser of the capitalization
 level established by the proposer for financial statement purposes, or
 $5,000.
 It is important to note that the acquisition cost of equipment includes
 modifications, attachments, and accessories necessary to make the property
 usable for the purpose for which it will be purchased.
 Items of needed equipment must be adequately justified, listed individually
 by description and estimated cost.
 Allowable items ordinarily will be limited to research equipment and apparatus
 not already available for the conduct of the work.
 General purpose equipment such as office equipment and furnishings, and
 information technology equipment and systems are typically not eligible
 for direct cost support.
 Special purpose or scientific use computers or associated hardware and
 software, however, may be requested as items of equipment when necessary
 to accomplish the project objectives and not otherwise reasonably available.
 Any request to support such items must be clearly disclosed in the proposal
 budget, justified in the budget justification, and be included in the NSF
 award budget.
 See 2 CFR § 200.313 for additional information.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
E.
 Travel
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\series bold
Travel (Line E on the Proposal Budget)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
When anticipated, travel and its relation to the proposed activities must
 be specified, itemized and justified by destination and cost.
 Funds may be requested for field work, attendance at meetings and conferences,a
nd other travel associated with the proposed work, including subsistence.
 In order to qualify for support, however, attendance at meetings or conferences
 must be necessary to accomplish proposal objectives, or disseminate its
 results.
 Travel support for dependents of key project personnel may be requested
 only when the travel is for a duration of six months or more either by
 inclusion in the approved budget or with the prior written approval of
 the cognizant NSF Grants Officer.
 Temporary dependent care costs above and beyond regular dependent care
 that directly result from travel to conferences are allowable costs provided
 that the conditions established in 2 CFR § 200.474 are met.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Allowance for air travel normally will not exceed the cost of round-trip,
 economy airfares.
 Persons traveling under NSF grants must travel by US-Flag Air carriers,
 if available.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
- Domestic Travel: Domestic travel includes travel within and between the
 US, its territories and possessions.19 Travel, meal and hotel expenses of
 grantee employees who are not on travel status are unallowable.
 Costs of employees on travel status are limited to those specifically authorize
d by 2 CFR § 200.474.
 - Foreign Travel: Travel outside the areas specified above is considered
 foreign travel.
 When anticipated, the proposer must enter the names of countries and dates
 of visit on the proposal budget, if known.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
#### Participant Support (Line F on the Proposal Budget)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
This budget category refers to direct costs for items such as stipends or
 subsistence allowances, travel allowances, and registration fees paid to
 or on behalf of participants or trainees (but not employees) in connection
 with NSF-sponsored conferences or training projects.
 Any additional categories of participant support costs other than those
 described in 2 CFR § 200.75 (such as incentives, gifts, souvenirs, t-shirts
 and memorabilia), must be justified in the budget justification, and such
 costs will be closely scrutinized by NSF.
 (See also Chapter II.E.7) For some educational projects conducted at local
 school districts, however, the participants being trained are employees.
 In such cases, the costs must be classified as participant support if payment
 is made through a stipend or training allowance method.
 The school district must have an accounting mechanism in place (i.e., sub-account
 code) to differentiate between regular salary and stipend payments.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
To help defray the costs of participating in a conference or training activity,
 funds may be proposed for payment of stipends, per diem or subsistence
 allowances, based on the type and duration of the activity.
 Such allowances must be reasonable, in conformance with the policy of the
 proposing organization and limited to the days of attendance at the conference
 plus the actual travel time required to reach the conference location.
 Where meals or lodgings are furnished without charge or at a nominal cost
 (e.g., as part of the registration fee), the per diem or subsistence allowance
 should be correspondingly reduced.
 Although local participants may participate in conference meals and coffee
 breaks, funds may not be proposed to pay per diem or similar expenses for
 local participants in the conference.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Funds may be requested for the travel costs of participants.
 If so, the restrictions regarding class of accommodations and use of US-Flag
 air carriers are applicable.20 In training activities that involve field
 trips, costs of transportation of participants are allowable.
 The number of participants to be supported must be entered in the parentheses
 on the proposal budget.
 Participant support costs must be specified, itemized and justified in
 the budget justification section of the proposal.
 Indirect costs (F&A) are not allowed on participant support costs.
 Participant support costs must be accounted for separately should an award
 be made.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1) all travel (both domestic and foreign) must now be justified.
 2) temporary dependent care costs above and beyond regular dependent care
 that directly result from travel to conferences are allowable costs provided
 that the conditions established in 2 CFR Â§ 200.474 are met.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
G.
 Other Direct Costs
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\series bold
Other Direct Costs (Lines G1 through G6 on the Proposal Budget
\series default
) 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Any costs proposed to an NSF project must be allowable, reasonable and directly
 allocable to the supported activity.
 When anticipated, the budget must identify and itemize other anticipated
 direct costs not included under the headings above, including materials
 and supplies, publication costs, computer services and consultant services.
 Examples include aircraft rental, space rental at research establishments
 away from the proposing organization, minor building alterations, payments
 to human subjects, and service charges.
 Reference books and periodicals only may be included on the proposal budget
 if they are specifically allocable to the project being supported by NSF.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
##### Materials and Supplies (including Costs of Computing Devices) (Line
 G1 on the Proposal Budget) When anticipated, the proposal budget justification
 must indicate the general types of expendable materials and supplies required.
 Supplies are defined as all tangible personal property other than those
 described in paragraph (d)(iii) above.
 A computing device is considered a supply if the acquisition cost is less
 than the lesser of the capitalization level established by the proposer
 or $5,000, regardless of the length of its useful life.
 In the specific case of computing devices, charging as a direct cost is
 allowable for devices that are essential and allocable, but not solely
 dedicated, to the performance of the NSF project.
 Details and justification must be included for items requested to support
 the project.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
##### Publication/Documentation/Dissemination (Line G2 on the Proposal Budget)
 The proposal budget may request funds for the costs of documenting, preparing,
 publishing or otherwise making available to others the findings and products
 of the work conducted under the grant.
 This generally includes the following types of activities: reports, reprints,
 page charges or other journal costs (except costs for prior or early publicatio
n); necessary illustrations; cleanup, documentation, storage and indexing
 of data and databases; development, documentation and debugging of software;
 and storage, preservation, documentation, indexing, etc., of physical specimens,
 collections or fabricated items.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
##### Consultant Services (also referred to as Professional Service Costs)
 (Line G3 on the Proposal Budget) The proposal budget may request costs
 for professional and consultant services.
 Professional and consultant services are services rendered by persons who
 are members of a particular profession or possess a special skill, and
 who are not officers or employees of the proposing organization.
 Costs of professional and consultant services are allowable when reasonable
 in relation to the services rendered and when not contingent upon recovery
 of costs from the Federal government.
 Anticipated services must be justified and information furnished on each
 individual’s expertise, primary organizational affiliation, normal daily
 compensation rate, and number of days of expected service.
 Consultants’ travel costs, including subsistence, may be included.
 If requested, the proposer must be able to justify that the proposed rate
 of pay is reasonable.
 Additional information on the allowability of consultant or professional
 service costs is available in 2 CFR § 200.459.
 In addition to other provisions required by the proposing organization,
 all contracts made under the NSF award must contain the applicable provisions
 identified in 2 CFR § 200 Appendix II.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
##### Computer Services (Line G4 on the Proposal Budget) The cost of computer
 services, including computer-based retrieval of scientific, technical and
 educational information, may be requested only where it is institutional
 policy to charge such costs as direct charges.
 A justification based on the established computer service rates at the
 proposing organization must be included.
 The proposal budget also may request costs for leasing of computer equipment.
 As noted in Chapter II.C.2.g(iii), general purpose (such as word processing,
 spreadsheets, communication) computer equipment should not be requested.
 Note: See paragraph (a) above for guidance on acquisition of computing
 devices.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
##### Subawards21 (Line G5 on the Proposal Budget) Except for the purchase
 of materials and supplies, equipment or general support services allowable
 under the grant, no portion of the proposed activity may be subawarded,
 transferred, or contracted out to another organization without prior written
 NSF authorization.
 Such authorization must be provided either through inclusion of the subaward(s)
 on an NSF award budget or by receiving written prior approval from the
 cognizant NSF Grants Officer after an award is issued.
 If known at the time of proposal submission, the intent to enter into such
 arrangements must be disclosed in the proposal.
 A separate budget and a budget justification of no more than three pages,
 must be provided for each subrecipient, if already identified, along with
 a description of the work to be performed.
 All proposing organizations are required to make a case-by-case determination
 regarding the role of a subrecipient versus contractor for each agreement
 it makes.
 2 CFR § 200.330 provides characteristics of each type of arrangement to
 assist proposing organizations in making that determination.
 However, inclusion of a subaward or contract in the proposal budget or
 submission of a request after issuance of an NSF award to add a subaward
 or contract will document the organizational determination required.
 It is NSF’s expectation that, consistent with 2 CFR § 200.414, NSF grantees
 will use the domestic subrecipient’s applicable US Federally negotiated
 indirect cost rate(s).
 If no such rate exists, the NSF grantee may either negotiate a rate or
 will fund the subrecipient using the de minimis indirect cost rate recovery
 of 10% of modified total direct costs.
 It is also NSF’s expectation that NSF grantees will use the foreign subrecipien
t’s applicable US Federally negotiated indirect cost rate(s).
 However, if no such rate exists, the NSF grantee will fund the foreign
 subrecipient using the de minimis indirect cost rate recovery of 10% of
 modified total direct costs.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
##### Other (Line G6 on the Proposal Budget) Any other direct costs not
 specified in Lines G1 through G5 must be identified on Line G6.
 Such costs must be itemized and detailed in the budget justification.
 Incentive payments, for example, payments to human subjects or incentives
 to promote completion of a survey, should be included on line G6 of the
 NSF budget.
 Incentive payments should be proposed in accordance with organizational
 policies and procedures.
 Indirect costs should be calculated on incentive payments in accordance
 with the organization’s approved US Federally negotiated indirect cost
 rate(s).
 Performance based incentive payments to employees as described in 2 CFR
 §200.430(f) should not be included in this section of the budget.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
#### Total direct costs
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
rest p.
 28+ CONTINUE 
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1) Includes coverage on costs of computing devices 2) The charging of computing
 devices as a direct cost is allowable for devices that are essential and
 allocable, but not solely dedicated, to the performance of the NSF award
\series bold
 G5.

\series default
 Includes tuition for graduate students participating in the program.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
H.
 Indirect Costs
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
Overhead at a rate of X% is charged on all direct salaries and wages, applicable
 fringe benefits, materials and supplies, services, travel and subawards
 up to the first $X of each subaward.
 Excluded are equipment and the portion of each subaward in excess of $X.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
