#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass style/nsf
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package none
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding default
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 0
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 0
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 0
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout ProposalSection
B
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Project Summary
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Overview
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Each proposal must contain a summary of the proposed project not more than
\series bold
one page in length
\series default
.
 The Project Summary consists of an overview, a statement on the intellectual
 merit of the proposed activity, and a statement on the broader impacts
 of the proposed activity.
 The overview includes a description of the activity that would result if
 the proposal were funded and a statement of objectives and methods to be
 employed.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Project Summary should be written in the third person, informative to
 other persons working in the same or related fields, and, insofar as possible,
 understandable to a scientifically or technically literate lay reader.
 It should not be an abstract of the proposal.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If the Project Summary contains special characters it may be uploaded as
 a Supplementary Document.
\series bold
Project Summaries submitted as a PDF must be formatted with separate headings
 for the overview, statement on the intellectual merit of the proposed activity,
 and statement on the broader impacts of the proposed activity
\series default
.
 Failure to include these headings may result in the proposal being returned
 without review.
 Additional instructions for preparation of the Project Summary are available
 in FastLane.
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Intellectual Merit
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The statement on intellectual merit should describe the potential of the
 proposed activity to advance knowledge.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Broader Impacts of the Proposed Work
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The statement on broader impacts should describe the potential of the proposed
 activity to benefit society and contribute to the achievement of specific,
 desired societal outcomes.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
